[Music]
Henry Obrig! Come in, mother!
[Applause]
[Music]
Grown-ups, when looking back upon the days of their youth,
always translate even their greatest catastrophes into pleasant memories.
But when you're right there in your teens like Henry Algridge,
The catastrophe is really a catastrophe.
The scene opens at the August breakfast table.
It is Saturday morning.
More coffee, Sam?
Yes, please.
And did I tell you, Mother, that she's going to wear a new, short,
true stress? Isn't that nice?
That's enough, Alice. Thank you.
And shoes to match?
Really? Well, that's fine.
Who, dear? Who, what?
Is wearing all these things?
Nancy Adams.
Into the dance tonight.
Henry, is it necessary for you to bolt your breakfast like that?
The father haven't you been listening? I'm going to a dance right after breakfast
Now sure deny
But gee it's the most important dance of the year in chartreuse is my favorite color
How do you follow that dear you're the lawyer don't look at me. She was don't you get a father?
That's why she's wearing it wearing what good dress
I'm glad to hear it. Did I hear it though?
Oh, is that you Homer?
Gee come on in we've been waiting for you. Good morning Homer
That isn't much breakfast left Homer, but you're welcome to watch you can find
Homer didn't you hear me I invited you to have something to eat
But a home
If I don't have his mother, Alice, it may be serious.
But he looks alright for Homer.
Hey, go into the living room and try to find out what's wrong.
Okay.
Hey Homer!
Sam, you're so just contagious.
Homer!
Oh, here you are.
Hey, Homer, why are you just standing in the middle of the room?
Oh, I am.
What's wrong?
Well, that's okay, Henry.
Don't let me get you down.
Do you've got your whole life before you?
You learned so of you!
Maybe.
Who are you?
Depressed about something?
Depressed?
She would you get a my idea like that?
But something's happened.
Well, Gloria broke her date to go to the dance with me tonight.
But what's so unusual about that?
Homer, she didn't.
That's nothing.
And she's the third girl at Sonant this week.
Gee.
Do you expect to do it?
Why would she do a thing like that?
I don't blame her.
I'll pull yourself together.
Turn together, I'm together.
Only look at Charlie Carr.
He's got a swelled car and lots of clothes.
Toby Smith has looks.
You've got personality.
Even William Marshall, he has a bankroll.
What have I got?
You've got...
Yeah?
Homer, you've got lots of things!
You've got...
Mainly one.
Well, you've got...
You're awfully good to your mother.
That's the least I can do. She has to live with me.
Listen, Homer, you're taking this whole thing too seriously.
No I'm not and I can see the humor aside of it.
Geez.
Heh.
See I think the whole thing's pretty firming.
Well, so long.
Oh well you're not going.
Sure.
You'll want to be making your plans for the dance.
I'll just run along and get out of your ways.
Wait a second, Homer.
Why don't I phone Cori and tell her what a mistake she's making.
No sir.
Well how about if my mother phones there?
mother where she's real good at oh no maybe you think I'm gonna live on
charitable institutions oh wait don't worry about me
him I'll just go home and do some studies studying on Saturday night
Gee Gee when hello hello operator number please
Oh, I'm eight one one. Yes, mother
In the second mother as soon as I get home we're off my mark. Hello. Hello. Is that you Nancy?
Yes, is that you Chester the who oh my goodness. What day is this? Why Saturday? Oh?
Hello Henry. Oh
How are you? I'm fine. How are you? I'm fine. How's Chester? Oh my goodness
Never mind look and Nancy could you do me a big favor?
I love you.
Well, I've got this very good friend see and I'd like to fix him up with a date for the dance tonight.
Really? What's he like?
What's he like?
Well, he's uh, he's kind to his mother.
What I mean is he not?
Well, I'll say is Nancy. She's a swell guy. The soul of the earth. He's got everything.
Really?
Sure, he's got...
He's got...
And not only that, he's modest.
Henry?
I know exactly who I can guess for.
You do?
I was just talking to a girlfriend of mine who hasn't got a single date tonight.
These...
Well...
To tell you the truth she just broke a date with a boy that she says is simply impossible.
Well, Nancy feels certainly like Whispeller.
I also because she's pretty particular.
So is he?
Oh, is he? As a matter of fact, he's more or less of a confirmed bachelor.
Oh, my goodness, really?
Sure. And now I have to hang up, Mampy. So, goodbye.
Goodbye. Henry. How about your breakfast?
The mother of her, I have to phone Charlie and Willie.
What's wrong?
To get Homer in Shakespeare tonight, it's a matter of life and death.
Oh, yes, he sounds wonderful.
And not only that, Gloria, he's a confirmed bachelor.
Oh, my goodness, an older man.
And he sounds to me like a womanator.
Isn't that thrilling?
Only, if he's as wonderful as all that, he must be terribly conceited.
Oh, no, Gloria.
And he said even though he's got absolutely everything he does modest, it can be.
Did you happen to ask whether he was tall?
No.
But I remember distinctly Henry didn't say he was short and mad at him.
And to think I almost tied myself up with that awful Homer Brown.
Yeah.
Imagine my goodness, a thing like that could blithe my whole existence.
(music)
Hello there!
Hello there! I'm speaking with you.
Sure, Mother. And I appreciate it.
(laughter)
I beg your pardon?
Oh, you don't have to put yourself out.
I've been thinking of what you said about giving up dancing.
I think you're very wise.
You do.
After all, homo, what is that dancing anyhow?
You just walk around the room pushing a girl and trying to keep time to attune.
Sure.
Most of the time when girls push me.
A book.
There are other things much more fun than that.
You can't.
What give me wings or something?
I don't know.
Here's Henry now.
Shall I get the chessboard, dear?
Don't bother mother, then I'll cut you both some cake
I got your date for tonight. Yeah
Will you stop that plane didn't you hear me?
Sure him, but she'll just take one look at me and remember she has to sit with a sick friend
But home I wash her hair for a minder brother. Oh, that's okay him
Besides I have any money for flowers. I'm having any car
I don't even really
Hi, how's the kid? Hi, Willie. Why Henry? Imagine seeing you here sure in a man can see you here
Imagine seeing anybody here
Listen, I just brought them to pay about two dollars. What two dollars? You know that you like me here
Well, I never lent you any money. Sure. You did I didn't I?
Don't you remember when did I last summer when the last
She was you fellas feel alright
Charlie car sure I mean maybe well what would he be doing here?
Imagine seeing you here. Oh, we imagine seeing you here and willy imagine seeing you here. Hey take it easy fellas. Hi home
Hi Charlie imagine seeing you
I mean, home on my car's outside.
It is?
Sure.
Homer, I think what Charlie means is he's landing it to you.
Landing it to me, but Charlie, you never let anyone even breathe in that car.
What do you mean by a remark like that?
Well, it's not that you need to be stingy.
Who's stingy?
Nobody said you were stingy.
That's what I say.
Homer did.
He did not.
- And we are heard of Willy. - And listen, Homer.
- Hey, how are you? - Oh, I'm forgetting.
He whizzed what we come over here for anyway.
That's what I like to know.
Homer, all we want to do is give you a helping hand, don't we, fellas?
Sure, so you won't make a mess of your date tonight.
And if you ask me, Homer, the least you could do if you're going out dancing is get a haircut.
But surely, he always looks like a porcupine when he gets a haircut.
- Totally. - But Willy, look at it.
It's practically down to his shoulders.
Charlie it is not
Besides I hate getting my hair cut you know what the whole trouble is Homer
You don't go to the right barber the whole trouble is you should have it parted on the side instead of the middle
Probably you're crazy. You shouldn't have any part of all which would be cold straight back
Listen Lily. Oh, we'll keep out of it. Oh, what will he that be terrible? He'd be all face
Father, please step into the dining room a minute.
Sure, Father.
I'll be right back, fellas.
Can't we do anything about the way he walked?
Oh, Bob, I've been listening to you.
Father, you mean you've been eavesdropping?
Never mind.
How many times have I elected you about borrowing money and automobile?
But Father, I never asked to borrow them.
No.
I suppose the boys volunteered them out of a clear sky.
Sure.
I give you my word.
See, I think everybody in town's gone crazy.
That's hardly likely.
You mean it to me?
Oh my, I want you to march straight up to your room and ride out 500 times.
Neither Barrowar nor Lender Bee.
But father, what a high turn.
Now march!
[MUSIC]
Hello, Mrs. Aldrich.
Yes?
This is Mrs. Brown.
Why, Elizabeth, how are you?
Quite well, thank you, Mrs. Aldrich.
Your son Henry is just left here with some of his friends.
And listen to this something wrong?
Well apparently there's plenty wrong with Homer.
Now that you've mentioned it, he did seem a little odd this morning.
Well, although he may be, we become somewhat attached to him just as he is.
And if anyone's going to remodel him, it seems to me to be
some a little more perfect than your Henry.
And listen, but I know that's a good thing.
And in the future, Mrs. Orbridge,
suppose Henry runs his life and I run Homer's.
Goodbye.
But Elizabeth!
Where are you?
In the living room reading the paper.
Well put it down.
You've got to do something about Homer.
I just did.
I sent him up to his room.
You did?
You mean about his appearance?
Elizabeth, I'm not responsible for his appearance.
But don't look at me, Will Brown.
Elizabeth, what are you talking about?
I sent him upstairs to punish him.
Punish him?
Yes.
After all he's been through this week, what's that?
Didn't you know that in one week three different girls have packed him aside?
Like like an old shoe and I help it if girls nowadays are getting choosy
Really there's no one to blame for this, but you me think if all home has gone to
Well, if if only the girls would take the trouble to look under me underneath what?
It only skin deep
And they'd only get under your skin. They'd see what a fine person you really know
What kind of a knife is he going to have?
The poor little guy.
I'll answer the phone.
Hello.
Hello, well, this is Sam O'Ree.
Oh, hello, Sam.
I just called to apologize to Elizabeth.
Elizabeth can't come to the phone right now, Sam.
She saw him...
Well, taking a bath.
Oh.
What did you want to apologize for?
Now I'm not quite sure, but Alice is very upset. She seems to feel she offended Elizabeth in some way.
Well, I wouldn't worry about it, Sam. Probably some foolish little spat.
You think so?
You know how unreasonable women are.
Yeah, that's true. By the way, we're the house Homer feeling.
Oh, Mark?
Yes, we were a little worried about him this morning.
Why should you be worried about him?
Well, frankly, I understood from Henry that Homer was having girl trouble.
trouble now look here Sam out rich I don't know where a rumor like that could
have started but I'll have you know that Homer is as popular with the girls as
Henry is any day in the week but I never had any trouble getting a date neither
did my father before me and you can be pretty sure that Homer is following in
our footsteps good day come on down here
I had trouble getting my pencil sharpened teeth.
Oh my, why aren't you willing to let the boys help you if they want to?
Why?
Charlie wants to lend you his car and Willie wants to give you two dollars?
You take them.
Father, do you feel alright?
Me?
I never felt better in my life.
Well, do I look alright?
You look fine, Homer.
Beauty's only skin deep.
Here.
Here's the $10 bill.
Father, are you handing that in my direction?
I am, and I want you to go out tonight and win your girl.
What?
In the good old bound tradition.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[APPLAUSE]
Come on, Homer, let's step on it.
Sure.
And we've got a lot to do this afternoon.
Gee Henry, I sure appreciate what you and the fellas are doing for us.
Don't mention that homeward, it's the least we can do for an underprivileged friend.
Gee thanks.
By the way, where are weally in charge?
Over Willy's pressing your suit.
They are.
And look Homer, I don't mean to be critical, but you have to trot beside a person like that.
Can't you sort of strive?
Well.
And hold your shoulders back like this.
Yeah.
Stick your chest down.
My chest?
A home where at least you can try.
Hey, Ray.
Hey, is that your mother?
Every way.
Mother, what are you doing downtown?
Henry, I was talking to Mrs. Brown a while ago and she's very much upset.
What about?
She seems to think you're doing something terrible to Homer.
Hello, Homer.
Well, where'd she get an idea like that?
Well, I'm doing this remodeling him.
There, you're just about it immediately.
Just when I've got him where he looks almost human.
You are.
Henry, what are things to say?
But, mother, have you actually honestly ever looked at Homer as one human being to another?
I am looking at it.
Yeah, but look, mother, would you do this?
Would you sort of pretend it's the olden days when you were a girl?
What's that?
And you're all dialed up for a party, see?
And you're expecting a swell guy to show up.
Sure.
rings and you open the door and they're staring in the face is Homer.
My goodness Henry I know the very thing Homer needs.
You do?
What Mrs. Olga?
I'll tell you later in surprise you goodbye.
He would.
Come on Homer here's the flower shop.
Sure.
Henry what do you suppose your mother means?
See how would I know?
Hello there Henry.
Over.
Come Mr. Prentice.
What should I do for you boys?
I like to get a coarse eyes to send a girl for a dance to me.
It's your thing, Homer.
A one-bunch of daisies, right?
What?
Sure.
Wait a minute, Mr. Prentice.
Homer, you're not sending her daisies.
Why, not that's what I always say.
Sure, and there's your whole trouble.
Gee, whiz, if you were a girl, how do you feel if some fella
sent you the cheapest flower on the market?
Look, suppose--
Look, suppose you boys make up your minds, let me know.
It's all made up, Mr. Prentice.
We'd like to look at some markets.
For kids?
Can you think I'm a millionaire?
Sure, didn't your father give you ten dollars?
The cheapest orchid I have is four dollars.
Four dollars? Four dollars?
They pretty one nine.
And then what have you got? A book more.
Mr. Prentice couldn't homework just C1.
I'm provided it doesn't cost anything for law.
Oh, Miss Jones, would you please bring A orchid out of the refrigerator?
Well, geez, bring the Mr. Prentice.
I'd like to pick out some flowers for my girl.
for my girl.
Alright Henry, how about the nice car deez?
Garvenius, how much are they?
No, I could make up a nice courseage for 350.
As high as that.
How much would carnations be?
275.
See, where?
Well, look, how much are daisies?
We're going to this dance in order to have a good time, aren't we?
Hi, Besso.
Well, if you're gonna suck all evening,
it's going in your day, sent you an orchid, and all Henry sent me was Daisy.
He did.
And the more I think about it, the more I think of all the nerve.
I tell playing you, Nancy.
How am I going to look with a bunch of babies and Henry and Olga,
when you're dancing with a man in an orchid?
Okay Homer, you're all ready to go to the dance. Stand over there and let's have a last look at you.
How's it?
Willie straighten his tie a little. Sure. Boy he doesn't look like the same guy, does he?
I don't see that swell.
Those extra heels my mother has put on a choos make all the difference.
Come on fellas it's time to go is your car outside Charlie sure but boy is it raining
That's okay. Will he open the door sure and I'll be putting up the umbrella
I'm going to hold over you Homer while while you get down the wall you take his right arm willy and I'll take his left
Sure now listen fellas. I can at least walk by myself
Oh, no Homer. We're not taking any chances on you falling on your face. Okay fellas. Let's go
The umbrella over him.
Yeah, but you fellas are all out in the ring and you're all just up to...
Don't worry about our homework.
Okay, here's my car, get in Homer.
Hey, look out for that car!
Homer, get by!
He's gonna splash you!
Get bacon in with, why don't you look where you're going?
[Laughing]
Born.
Boy, just look at him.
Sheeee.
What's this all over my face?
Mud homie.
Well, let's get out your handkerchief.
Sure.
Ow.
Oh, my whole still.
Listen, college, you're getting the mud right in my eye.
Okay, okay, who said that?
Who said what?
Who's the white guy who called me a knitted?
Why aren't you?
Where is your knuckus block off?
Who me?
(screaming)
(upbeat music)
[Music]
Homer. Homer, how do you feel?
I feel swell, Henry.
Did you have a good night?
Sure. Thanks, Willie.
Are they treating you all right, fella?
Boy, I'll say.
That's one thing about this hospital. The service is swell.
Gee, you sure are taking it well, kid.
And we just want you to know, Homer, that we admire the way you stood up to that truck driver last night.
You bet, we sure have to hand it to you.
No, I'll say.
Boy, if you hadn't fainted, there's no telling what would have happened.
Sure.
Only what I can't understand, Homer! How did you get so banged up?
When you guys brought me down here to the hospital to have them look at my head.
Yeah?
Gee, I was walking down the stairs, see?
I forgot to allow for those extra rubber heels on my shoes.
Homer, let's talk about it.
Gee, how can you ever forgive us for what we did to you?
Gee, you didn't do anything.
I feel great.
Boy, I never felt better in my life.
Look, can we tell him now?
How many of you have you seen before?
I'm sure.
Homer, have we got a surprise for you?
Sure.
Guess who's out in the hole and wants to see?
Gloria.
Gloria?
She brought you a swell bunch of daisies.
She did.
Oh, look.
Could you tell it?
Just leave them and tell her I said thanks.
Homer, don't you want to see, Gloria?
Why?
I don't want to take up her time, Hinn.
And look, why don't you fellas just run along too?
And leave you all alone?
Well, I won't be lonely, Ernest.
Maybe you'll be wanting to see Nancy.
No, I won't, Homer. She broke our damn state last night.
She is. Why?
I don't know. Came right out of a clear sky.
Homer, don't you really want us to stay?
Oh, well.
Come on, guys. Maybe we are tiring him out.
Sure.
Well, okay. And thank you.
Gee, did you ever see anybody so brave?
Oh, excuse me.
Excuse us, nurse. Sure. Come on, father.
Well, Homer, how are we feeling now?
She nurse, I feel terrible.
Where have you been now, Homer?
Don't you worry about a thing.
We're going to pick you up and get you out of here in no time.
She was nurse. What's the hurry?
The way I feel, I'm going to be here for at least a week.
Really?
Or two, if I can marry you.
Perhaps I'd better take your pulse again.
Sure.
Here, nurse.
Here's my hand now just lie still
Oh boy.
(audience applauding)
[applause]
[Music]
This is the United States Armed Forces Radio Service, the voice of information and education.
(dramatic music)
(upbeat music)
[Music]
[BLANK_AUDIO]